the European Union's top diplomat warns
the risk of Israel's war
spilling over into Lebanon is growing.
Joseph Burrell
says he's much more worried
than before, pointing
to increased bombings
on both sides of the border.
Ben Wedeman is in Lebanon,
where life goes on
as the shadow of war looms large.
It's a day of joy
and celebration here in South Lebanon.
Israeli forces are just
about five miles away from here.
But nonetheless, here
in the town of Hezbollah,
there's a wedding going on.
It didn't seem right to spoil
this special day
for newlyweds Tamer and Faten,
with questions about the dark clouds
hovering over Lebanon.
But one guest told us off camera,
we're celebrating here
while war is around the corner.
Hezbollah has been spared
the worst of the barrages
and counter barrages
between Israel and Hezbollah.
Here they stop anyone from firing
towards Israel.
Parliament member Elias
Gerardi was elected
to represent Christians in this area.
Majority of the southern people,
majority of the Lebanese people
from all sects or religions or parties,
they are in one way or another.
They are committed with the Palestinian.
Everyone we spoke with
had a completely contrary opinion.
Few people wanted to speak on camera
about the looming
danger of war for fear of repercussions.
Off camera, we got an earful.
There is zero appetite for escalation.
Little support for Hezbollah.
85 year old Abu Nabeel has seen it all.
War and civil war.
Invasions and occupation of weapons of
war is ruination, he says.
In war, everyone loses.
Even the winner,
Abu Nabeel, knows of what he speaks.
Since October,
Israel and Hezbollah and its allies
have been engaged
in low intensity warfare,
largely limited to the border.
If full scale war breaks out,
that war will spread
well beyond the frontier on both sides.
Last week, Israeli
generals approved a plan
to attack Lebanon right now,
while Hezbollah leader Hassan
Nasrallah recently warned
if it comes to war,
the group will fight Israel on land,
sea and air
and also incite Israel itself.
All this webinar covered webinars.
The Iranian backed groups
sophisticated attacks
have surprised Israeli officials,
including precision strikes
on surveillance posts
on the border,
shooting down high flying Israeli drones
and knocking out anti-missile
and anti-drone defenses,
and posting online
more than nine minutes of what it claimed
was drone
footage
of sensitive military
and civilian infrastructure in
and around the city of Haifa.
The bell summons the faithful to mass
in the predominantly
Christian town of Marjayoun.
More than 90,000
people have already left
the South for safer ground
in Hebron.
Among, Amal
says she's determined to stay, but adds
if things escalate to war
and it reaches here like it did
before with some shelling,
of course,
like others will have to leave this.
But for now they can only pray for peace
and hope those prayers are heard.
Our Ben Wedeman joins us now from Beirut.
Ben, I want you to pack this for us
because the rhetoric
has definitely changed.
There's a sense and major concern
about potential escalation.
Israel last week
approving operational plans
for potential offensive in Lebanon.
Netanyahu is saying
they might shift focus to Lebanon.
How are people responding on the ground,
and what are they reading into this
new rhetoric
about the prospect of a bigger conflict?
Well, people have heard here in Lebanon
for months now, sort of saber rattling,
coming from Israel.
But I think what has people
really worried
with was,
what we've heard reported on CNN
that the Biden administration
has expressed its full support for Israel
in the event
of a full scale
hostilities between Hezbollah and Israel,
which is rather reminiscent
of the full bodied
support the Americans voiced
at the beginning
of the disastrous war in Gaza.
So really, that has people worried.
And we're already seeing signs of
of things, for instance,
cancellations in hotels in Lebanon
in the summer,
Lebanon is highly dependent on,
members of the Lebanese
diaspora and tourists
to come here
to bring badly needed hard cash.
There have been many cancellations,
and at hotels and elsewhere.
we also know that Kuwait,
Sweden and North Macedonia,
have warned their citizens not to travel
to Lebanon
under the current circumstances.
And those who are here to leave
immediately.
this is reminiscent,
of course, of the kind of things
we were seeing back in October last year.
And finally,
the London Telegraph has put out a report
saying that
the Beirut International Airport
is being
used as a storage depot for weapons
by Hezbollah.
Now, Lebanese
officials have come out
and flatly denied that,
the Minister of Information,
the Minister of Transport
and the foreign minister
actually led a tour of journalists
and foreign diplomats to show them
there's nothing there.
But people are worried
that this is a sign,
that, for instance,
there's a target that the Israelis
might hit the airport,
which is essential
for this small country,
which only has one international airport
and 90.
Yeah.
Ben Wedeman,
thank you so much for that analysis.
Good to see you.